Another common task is called multi-planar reconstruction.
The multi-planar reconstruction, or MPR,
refers to the construction of the images in cardinal planes,
which are not the main image acquisition plane.
A quick word on anatomical cardinal planes.
We have three cardinal planes called axial, coronal, and sagittal.
Axial plane separates top from the bottom.
Coronal plane separates back from the front,
and sagittal plane separates left from the right.
Typically, one of those planes will be primary and the others will be reconstructed.
There is also the term oblique reconstruction,
that refers to reconstructing the image at an arbitrary angle.
In this example here,
you can see how the coronal and sagittal planes
have been reconstructed from the axial plane.
Quite often, you will see the non-primary acquisition planes will be
of a significantly lower resolution or will have artifacts.
For example, here you can see
the wave emotion artifact in the abdominal area of this sagittal slice.
They are there due to the defects of
the helical reconstruction while CT table was moving through the gantry,
and now you know what exactly CT table and gantry means.